# Miscellaneous hints for Adebar usage

## General
*Adebar* only creates the scripts, it doesn't backup stuff itself. There are two
exceptions to this rule currently:

* it pulls the `packages.xml`
* it pulls the `wpa_supplicant.conf` and some other config files directly.

Both actions are relative fast. But once you run the scripts to create the real
backups, things are different: especially pulling the "Shared Storage" (see
below) might take quite a while, as your SD cards might hold gigabytes of data.
At the same time, it puts quite a strain on your battery, as it needs to transfer
all those data. So make sure to have a power source connected to your device
during the backup process (you probably will have that, as ADB is mostly used
via USB – but you could also use "ADB wireless", and the *TiBu* stuff is using
WiFi as well – so I'd thought to better point this out).

### When running the real backup
* as pointed out above: have a power source connected
* with the „ADB Backups“: always wait for the „complete“ toast before confirming
  the next backup (or ADB might choke, backup won't continue)
* if ADB „chokes“ (and the backup stalls): Check your backup directory for how
  far the process already went, adjust the script accordingly to start there,
  disconnect and reconnect your device, and re-start the modified script.


## Shared Storage
This term refers to your SD card(s). *Adebar* offers two ways to retrieve data
from those:

* `com.android.sharedstoragebackup.ab` (for abbreviation issues, I'll refer to
  this as *SSB* from now on)
* [Titanium Backup](http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.keramidas.TitaniumBackup)
  (abbreviated as *TiBu* here)

Scripts generated by *Adebar* cover both, so it's up to you which to use.

### Shared Storage Backup
As you might have already guessed from the above, *Shared Storage Backup* (here
abbreviated as „SSB“) is offered via ADB without the need of additional apps. It
is simply triggered when backing up data from its package. These data include
everything from your device's SD cards – both internal (`/0`) and external
(`/1`). Timestamps of files and directories are kept, but most files seem to
come as `0775` (i.e. the execute flag is set for user and group) – a condition
you might have seen when accessing FAT formatted drives in general.

While I'd prefer this backup to the one *TiBu* creates, specifically for
the timestamps, on some devices it has a little draw-back: The *LG Optimus 4X HD*
e.g. mounts the external SD card *inside* the internal one (`/sdcard/external_sd`),
which results in its contents backed up twice: once as part of the internal SD
(in the `/0` subdirectory), and another time as external SD in the `/1`
subdirectory. This not only makes the resulting backup file unnecessary huge,
but also takes much longer to backup. If you have the same issue, consider
removing the external SD card before pulling the *SSB*.

### TiBu
*TiBu* (Titanium Backup) offers an internal web server, which you can start
manually via its options menu. If running, you can pull 3 kinds of backups via
HTTP:

* contents of the internal SD card (`http://<DEVICE_IP>:8080/storage/INTERNAL/Storage-ALL.zip`)
* contents of the external SD card (`http://<DEVICE_IP>:8080/storage/SAMSUNG_EXT_SD_CARD/Storage-ALL.zip`)
* all your *TiBu* created backups (`http://<DEVICE_IP>:8080/TitaniumBackup-ALL.zip`).

In case of the above mentioned *LG Optimus 4X HD* I just had to pull the contents
of the internal card, and had them all: As noted, the external card is mounted
inside – and of course the backups reside on one of the two.

Disadvantage here is that *TiBu* touches the timestamps of all files, so the
original timestamps are lost: All files appear as if they would have been created
at the time the backup was made.


## Partition Backup
Version 1.1.0 of *Adebar* added the functionality to create a script for
backing up your partitions block-wise, i.e. create partition images. Consider
this rather experimental: This script is a side-product of the partition info
in the device documentation. Such images can get rather big, and running the
script as-is might result in unnecessary "duplicates" (to give you an example:
It might backup `/dev/block/mmcblk1`, which basically is the entire „drive“,
and additionally all its partitions separately: `/dev/block/mmcblk1p*`).
This is because there's no unified way of retrieving partition details. Other
than with „normal Linux systems“, Android installations don't come with
`/etc/fstab` by default (though you might find such with your custom ROM or
*Busybox* installation). So *Adebar* collects all details, and lets you decide.

Which also is the reason this generated script is not made executable (so you
don't run it accidentally before having it investigated and adjusted to your
needs).

The generated images could, similar to a *Nandroid* backup, be used to restore
the device. But be very careful with this approach: Never ever try writing a
partition which is in use (e.g. do not replace `/system` while your device is
running in „normal operation mode“). Make sure you know what you are doing
*before* you start doing it, or you might end up with a broken device.

Which is why I won't give instructions on how to restore those images. If you're
knowing what you're doing, you also know how to do it. I take no responsibility
for any results (but if they're positive, I'm open to donations).

## Device documentation: Names of system apps
Depending on the vendor and ROM of your device, it ships with several (hundreds)
apps pre-installed: there's the stock Android system, and the Cyanogen "stock"
(CyanogenOS / CyanogenMod). Vendors like LG or Motorola add some of their specific
apps – and vendors like Samsung tend to bloat your device with tons of their own
apps as well as that of others (on a *Galaxy S7 Edge,* I've counted almost 5 times
the amount of pre-installed apps found on e.g. the *LG P880:* far more than 200).

In order to not just see their package names in your system apps listings (many of
those apps are not found on *Google Play,* so you'd have to do some research or
make pretty good guesses), you can pre-fill *Adebar's* app-name-cache: Find the
necessary "cache files" in the [Adebar-Appcache](https://github.com/IzzySoft/Adebar-Appcache)
project (clone it or [download it as ZIP
file](https://github.com/IzzySoft/Adebar-Appcache/archive/master.zip)). Be welcome
to contribute to it – the selection of devices I have is limited :)